Thanks to all my clients for being with me and also Greetings to upcoming clients. Web Soft BD is a privately held ICT Company in Dhaka, Bangladesh. In the year of 2008; Web Soft BD was started journey. It has been achieved Certification of ISO 9001:2015 & BASIS (Bangladesh Association of Software & Information Services). Web Soft BD was established by a group of professionals with a desire to provide the best ICT (Information Communication Technology) Solutions in Bangladesh and abroad. We are experienced in System Development & ICT Solution of Agro-Meteorology, Meteorology, Agriculture, climate, Weather, Hydrology, Water, Food, Environment. And, WEB SOFT BD also expert in all kinds of System Development, Portal Development, Apps Development, A.I. Solution, Server Solution, datacenter solution, Domain Expert Services, Software Development, Data Center Solution, Networking, Server Solution, ERP Solution, Web Solution, Mail Solution, Corporate Support & Consultancy. We offer cutting edge solutions for today’s interactive ICT Solution.

The High-level Taskforce for GFCS (Global Framework on Climate Services) defined climate services as “Climate information prepared and delivered to meet users’ needs” (WMO, 2011). Climate services are also considered as a process of providing climate information in a way that assists decision-making by individuals and organizations. As far the weather and climate services to the farming community is concerned, Information Communication Technology (ICT) has great role to play. Along with this, ICT can play a great role in climate change adaptation. Linking of successful ICT pilot projects can be done with farmer field schools, farmer awareness programmers, farmers clubs which can provide weather forecast and Agromet information to the farmers. This could also include those related to climate and building capacity on a wider scale to the farming communities. Such approaches enhance the understanding of farmers’ needs and improve the existing state of dissemination of Agro-met advisory services. There is a need of strengthening of ICTs in the country as well as in the world in terms of infrastructure and capacity building.

CEO Image
The company WEB SOFT BD, an ICT company. At present is actively involved in operationalization of the World Bank funded project entitled “Agro-Meteorological Information Systems Development Project, Component-C of Bangladesh Weather and Climate Services Regional Project in Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE),Ministry of Agriculture(MoA), Bangladesh. Under this project, WEB SOFT BD has developed a dynamic and interactive portal, Crop Weather Calender Development, automation Solution & ICT Solution of “Bangladesh Agro-Meteorological Information (BAMIS) portal. Named: https://www.bamis.gov.bd/

In Bangladesh, all the components of climate services are being displayed and communicated to the all engaged in services to the agriculture including the farmers. Ministry of Agriculture actively supports and campaign for the portal for benefit in agriculture in Bangladesh. The portal is very popular in Bangladesh. Besides, World Bank and other national and international organization appreciated the services rendered to the farmers in Bangladesh through this portal. And, also Actively involved in operationalization and AI solution of “Bangladesh Meteorological Department (BMD), Ministry of Defence, Bangladesh. Under this project, WEB SOFT BD has developed a dynamic and interactive Portal, Apps, Software, Weather Automated Dissemination System, Meteorological Data Assessment Sub System, Earth Quack Apps and other ICT services. Named: www.bmd.gov.bd

WEB SOFT BD also Actively involved in operationalization and AI based portal Development, System Solution & Integration of Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB), Product was developed as “Salinity Intrusion model, Sediment Transport and Morphological model, Drought model, Groundwater Assessment model”. Named: www.hifm.bwdb.gov.bd

WEB SOFT BD expresses its interest to supports similar services to other countries in the World where such facilities are not available. At present, WEB SOFT BD has well experienced personnel having domain knowledge in agriculture, meteorology, computer science, ICT etc. WEB SOFT BD will be extremely happy and ready to accept any such project elsewhere and also fully justify its commitment to the project.

Our team also worked together to construct SMRCs (SAARC Meteorological Research Centre) Portal & Server solution of (www.smrc.gov.bd) . Initially, farmers were offered free hydro-meteorological products (flood, drought, and cyclone) through a local NGO. Because these products were insufficiently accurate at the time, individuals in the market attempted to develop them as weather predicting products that could also be utilized in agriculture. We surveyed the field level work on hydrometeorology during this project. In addition, our team and we maintain and manage the BMD website. Various types of meteorological and agrometeorological data are collected at the field level and distributed to various organizations via a web site (API) that has an agreement to accept meteorological data like DAE.

WEB SOFT BD also provided Server & Integration of Integrated Rice Advisory System(IRAS). IRAS Advisory system is based on NASA satellite technology co-developed and maintained by University of Washington, USA. The goal is to improve irrigation efficiency and yield for Bangladesh rice production at no additional cost during the Boro 2024 season using latest advancements in satellite technology. Impact evaluation on applying the advisory has already proven a potential 30% reduction in ground water pumping and fuel cost savings up to hundreds of millions of US dollars with no reported adverse side-effects. For more information, please visit the website at http://depts.washington.edu/saswe/dae/ or https://www.iras.bamis.gov.bd/ In also addition, WEB SPOFT BD team and we maintain and manage E-Commerce portal & Develop platform; with Mail Server of Sunlife Insurance Company (www.sunlifeinsbd.com).

Various types of financial data are collected at the field level and distributed to various organizations via a Portal.

We also develop & maintaining Portal of Bangladesh Olympic Association (BOA) www.nocban.org, Human Development Foundation (www.hdfbd.com), Poly Cables Industries Ltd. (www.polycables.com.bd), SOF TEL (www.softelbd.com), DMGI Pte., Singapore, (dmgi.com.sg). WEB SOFT BD also developed portal of Earth Science Technology and Policy Services Ltd.(www.esteps.og.bd) & Others. We also developed near about 1000+ Website, Portal, Apps, Newspaper Website, API, E- commerce site, Mail Server Solution in National & International level. We also provided various of IT Service in USA, UK, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, India & Others. In the future, I would like to be able to serve the whole world, so I wish for everyones sincere cooperation.

Thanks & Regards
Kazi Fakrul Latif
Founder & CEO
WEB SOFT BD
Phone: +88 01716983511 (WhatsApp)
Contact address: Level-04, House-1194, Avenue-11, Mirpur DOHS, Dhaka-1216, Bangladesh
E-mail: info@websoftbd.net,fakrulebt@yahoo.com
Web: www.websoftbd.net, www.websoft.com.bd